
### Date



### Participants

* ,  ,  ,  , 




### Context
Happening in the context of 2.1 scope planning and at the end of 2.0 release


### Agenda

1. Automated tenant migration - [Auto migration of user account to state tenant - SB-12323](https://www.google.com/url?q=https%3A%2F%2Fproject-sunbird.atlassian.net%2Fbrowse%2FSB-12323&sa=D&ust=1559375051828000&usg=AFQjCNGpLGmnX6hsfylcTkglkVPa1YsdAQ)

2. SSO doesn't update roles - [Enable user account updates as part of SSO - SB-11433](https://www.google.com/url?q=https%3A%2F%2Fproject-sunbird.atlassian.net%2Fbrowse%2FSB-11433&sa=D&ust=1559375051829000&usg=AFQjCNEInRwMaVbmBJjSzPblqq7QjAN8Bg)

3. User/Org schema - red items in [here](https://www.google.com/url?q=https%3A%2F%2Fproject-sunbird.atlassian.net%2Fwiki%2Fspaces%2FSBDES%2Fpages%2F1017217093%2FLearner%2BService%2BData%2BModels%2BComparison&sa=D&ust=1559375051829000&usg=AFQjCNGVwdCZrhzQ_2ffRkTNaNi03dz5Fg) were recommended to be removed. 

4. Username, LoginId mismatches and issues there (recently reported).
Decisions to be made in this meeting:1. Should automated migration be available in 2.1? \[PM wants a hotfix]2. Can roles be continued to be not updated?3. Whose decision is pending on the attributes removal from schema and our take on it. 4. Migration/Correction of username, loginid mismatches in prod - plan.


## Action items
Add action items to close the loop on open questions or discussion topics:

71complete - Create a ticket for Rajeev (portal) for SB-1232372complete - Provide an estimate of work finish by 28 May 2019
## Decisions
Type /decision to record the decisions you make in this meeting:

5db7ca92-f194-4a15-b093-d39cba037b4a5d10c71e-7686-437d-8df7-efe609de0a8fDECIDED[SB-12323](https://www.google.com/url?q=https%3A%2F%2Fproject-sunbird.atlassian.net%2Fbrowse%2FSB-12323&sa=D&ust=1559375051828000&usg=AFQjCNGpLGmnX6hsfylcTkglkVPa1YsdAQ)

\* User self-signed up using phoneA. Now, using SSO, user keys in phoneB and does an OTP verification. This user will be treated as a new user. Course progress on self-signup account will not be carried over to new user. 

\* User self-signed up using emailA. Now, using SSO, user keys in emailB and proceeds with OTP verification. This user will be treated as a new user. Course progress on self-signup account will not be carried over to new user. 

\* User self-signed up using email and then while using SSO uses phone number for OTP verification. This user will be treated as a new user. Course progress on self-signup account will not be carried over to the new user.

\* Updating emails and phone numbers post login is always possible, but is treated unique and so duplicate records would not be entertained.
* [SB-12323](https://www.google.com/url?q=https%3A%2F%2Fproject-sunbird.atlassian.net%2Fbrowse%2FSB-12323&sa=D&ust=1559375051828000&usg=AFQjCNGpLGmnX6hsfylcTkglkVPa1YsdAQ)

    \* User self-signed up using phoneA. Now, using SSO, user keys in phoneB and does an OTP verification. This user will be treated as a new user. Course progress on self-signup account will not be carried over to new user. 

    \* User self-signed up using emailA. Now, using SSO, user keys in emailB and proceeds with OTP verification. This user will be treated as a new user. Course progress on self-signup account will not be carried over to new user. 

    \* User self-signed up using email and then while using SSO uses phone number for OTP verification. This user will be treated as a new user. Course progress on self-signup account will not be carried over to the new user.

    \* Updating emails and phone numbers post login is always possible, but is treated unique and so duplicate records would not be entertained.

d5ed064f-4748-43bb-823f-0fd33ff81a7c6bd324b1-f3d0-4f59-8a1b-f7144357f957DECIDEDRoles are not over-written as part of SSO updates. We will revisit this in 2.2. \[There is a potential loss of ‘creator’ role with SSO updates and so was reverted in 2.1] b956cbf5-ffa1-49f3-9637-05358bace245DECIDEDUser/Org schema - red items in [here](https://www.google.com/url?q=https%3A%2F%2Fproject-sunbird.atlassian.net%2Fwiki%2Fspaces%2FSBDES%2Fpages%2F1017217093%2FLearner%2BService%2BData%2BModels%2BComparison&sa=D&ust=1559375051829000&usg=AFQjCNGVwdCZrhzQ_2ffRkTNaNi03dz5Fg) can be removed. Platform-users team to take note of this in OS integration.161a5248-6162-4447-8c22-65f6872c1ee6DECIDEDMigration/Correction of username, loginid mismatches in prod - There are 751 of the users whose details are not encrypted.

\* 721 users are “@qci” - probably not used

\* 30 users are very few users are test users.

[https://project-sunbird.atlassian.net/browse/SB-12633](https://project-sunbird.atlassian.net/browse/SB-12633) is likely to be actioned with NO code change. 
* Roles are not over-written as part of SSO updates. We will revisit this in 2.2. \[There is a potential loss of ‘creator’ role with SSO updates and so was reverted in 2.1] 
* User/Org schema - red items in [here](https://www.google.com/url?q=https%3A%2F%2Fproject-sunbird.atlassian.net%2Fwiki%2Fspaces%2FSBDES%2Fpages%2F1017217093%2FLearner%2BService%2BData%2BModels%2BComparison&sa=D&ust=1559375051829000&usg=AFQjCNGVwdCZrhzQ_2ffRkTNaNi03dz5Fg) can be removed. Platform-users team to take note of this in OS integration.
* Migration/Correction of username, loginid mismatches in prod - There are 751 of the users whose details are not encrypted.

    \* 721 users are “@qci” - probably not used

    \* 30 users are very few users are test users.

    [https://project-sunbird.atlassian.net/browse/SB-12633](https://project-sunbird.atlassian.net/browse/SB-12633) is likely to be actioned with NO code change. 

d72efff8-a69a-4859-8701-2415cf7ffc2155a8b996-dde0-4094-b9d1-573569bb76ffDECIDED User self signed up using emailA. Now the user carries out an SSO login using phoneA. These will be treated as 2 different accounts. Post this, if the user tries to edit profile and add emailA to the profile that has phoneA, the current system will throw up a duplicate error. We should provision for the ability to merge accounts where ownership of email ID/ phone number has been proved, as part of subsequent releases. This will require an agreement on how to resolve different levels of course progress in different accounts, how to resolve name inconsistencies if they exist etc. (The rule of thumb could be that the state provided account information - if available - overrides self declared info.)
*  User self signed up using emailA. Now the user carries out an SSO login using phoneA. These will be treated as 2 different accounts. Post this, if the user tries to edit profile and add emailA to the profile that has phoneA, the current system will throw up a duplicate error. We should provision for the ability to merge accounts where ownership of email ID/ phone number has been proved, as part of subsequent releases. This will require an agreement on how to resolve different levels of course progress in different accounts, how to resolve name inconsistencies if they exist etc. (The rule of thumb could be that the state provided account information - if available - overrides self declared info.)







*****

[[category.storage-team]] 
[[category.confluence]] 
